[THEME MUSIC]
>>LISA GARR: If you don't
know what your purpose is,
how do you find it?
Purpose is the centerpiece
upon which you build success.
No purpose equals nothing.
These are the words
of Mastin Kipp,
and they're brilliant, not mine.
He asked himself,
when he created
"The Daily Love," a daily blog
viewed by millions of seekers
who want to get in touch with
their purpose again, and again,
and again.
Mastin is the author of the
number one best selling book,
"Daily Love--
Growing into Grace."
He was included on
"MIND BODY SPIRIT"
magazine's list of the 100 most
spiritually influential living
people.
And according to Oprah, Mastin
is an up and coming thought
leader of next generation
spiritual thinkers.
Welcome.
>>MASTIN KIPP: Lisa,
thanks for having me.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KIPP: It's a
lot to live up to.
>>LISA: It is, isn't it?
[LAUGHS]
>>KIPP: Dang it.
>>LISA: You know what?
It's-- but it's real.
I mean, you live from
this really beautiful,
authentic place, yet
you've created an empire.
How do you do that?
>>KIPP: Well, we were
talking before the show,
it's really hard.
You know, I think--
my focus with "The
Daily Love" and then
getting into the work I do
now with functional coaching,
I always ask the question, why?
You know, when something
doesn't happen the way
you want it to happen,
or if it does work out,
I always ask question
why, with clients why.
And it all kind of
bottoms out at some type
of emotional trauma that
we've had, some type of pain
we've had in the past.
And it's what you do with
that that really matters.
And what's helpful
for me is, there's
always been a reason that's
propelled me to do what I do.
When I was a kid, it was
my mom had a broken back.
She was given all the
fentanyl and the opiates
that the doctors
could give her that
were-- we later found out
they were getting kickbacks
and stuff like that.
But I always wanted to
help her be out of pain.
So that was a
driving force for me.
And then that kind of
translated into the career
that I have now.
And that's why I do what I do.
I was in the entertainment
business very similarly.
And I left that because there
wasn't that sense of purpose
or meaning there for
me, once I realized
that money, power, and prestige
don't get you that far--
>>LISA: It's very fleeting.
>>KIPP: --when it
comes to happiness.
You know?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KIPP: And so that's what--
for me, my mission now is
to end emotional trauma
in my lifetime.
And so that's what drives me.
So if it's hard, you know--
>>LISA: You're used to it.
>>KIPP: Bring it.
>>LISA: Yeah.
You're used to it.
You're not-- not afraid of it.
So let's, if I could,
unwrap that a little bit,
of your past.
And you went through
this where you're really
caring for someone
who you love, and then
also trying to make
it in the world.
>>KIPP: Oh.
[LAUGHS]
>>LISA: You got involved in
the entertainment industry.
And what happened
when you did that?
>>KIPP: Well, I got into a very
large company called The Firm.
And they were a
management company.
And we had every
celebrity and every artist
you could think of.
And I thought that was it.
I was 19 years old.
Like, this is it.
And the more I got
into it, I picked up
drug habits and all kinds of
drinking, and stuff like that.
>>LISA: It's the culture.
>>KIPP: And I did it
for a girl though.
That's why I did it.
Because I wanted to fit in.
I never really had, like,
that type of attention before.
I was always very
introverted as a kid.
So when a girl liked me, I was
like, well, whatever you do,
I'll do.
So that's why I did it.
And then when the relationship
ended, a lot of that stuff
ended, too.
But It just was depleting.
And there wasn't a lot of
reciprocity in that business.
And I'll never forget,
one of my goals
was to manage a band
that had won a Grammy.
And I was working with--
on the management team for
Gnarls Barkley in 2007.
And we won two Grammys,
or something like that.
Two or three.
And we were nominated
for a bunch.
And I was-- I was walking
CeeLo down the red carpet.
And I was like, I feel like
I'm in high school again.
I don't feel happy.
This is not OK.
Like, who cares?
Like, what's the real--
what's really going on?
There's no connection here.
And, at that moment,
I realized, like, I
don't know what I'm going
to do, but this isn't it.
Because I thought I would be so
happy and elated, and I wasn't.
But, yeah, I've
had a couple like--
you know, I call
them divine storms
where the universe seems
to conspire against you.
There's always a wake
up call, you know?
And usually when
something that happens,
there's an underlying
pattern or trauma
pattern that has to be healed
so that it doesn't happen again.
>>LISA: So that
trauma pattern you say
is at the base of everything?
>>KIPP: Well, I-- so in
the world of spirituality--
you know, I have a
very woo-woo core, OK?
But I think if we're--
spiritual beings have
a human experience.
Let's focus on in the in
the body experience, right?
So what's going on
in this meat sack?
And that's what I focus a
lot of my time and attention.
And a lot of things
around the nervous system,
I'm very interested in, in
terms of how does it help you?
And why does it stop
you from moving forward?
And it always
usually bottoms out
to some type of survival motive
from the nervous system's
perspective to why you
don't want to move forward.
And every person
in the world has
some type of emotional trauma.
Most people don't
realize what trauma
is because they think it's
a physical injury, which
it certainly can be.
But if your mother is not
emotionally in tune with you,
and your parents aren't
emotionally in tune with you
or proximal to you
when you were a kid--
>>LISA: That's trauma.
>>KIPP: --that's traumatizing.
If you're holding something
in emotional isolation,
that's traumatizing.
So when you have
depression, anxiety, fear,
perfectionism,
procrastination, those
are all symptoms of
unresolved trauma.
And so I got frustrated
with my clients,
like, why are you
not doing this stuff
you said you wanted to do?
And after asking
you why enough, I
realized something
hurtful in the past
happened that's informing
the decisions now.
And why aren't we
talking about that?
Like, you can't
change your thoughts,
change your life without
acknowledging that really.
It's-- otherwise, it's you're
sort of willing yourself to do
it.
But to change-- to really
change your thoughts,
you have to change
your emotional state.
And you have to change that--
a lot of those
trauma patterns to be
able to feel safe to
manifest certain things.
Even with the law of attraction,
the same thing is true.
You know, like, to
raise your vibration
it has to be safe to be there.
And if it's not safe
to be there for you,
you're never going to
raise it because it's not
going to be safe.
So you'll fight
that tooth and nail.
>>LISA: You're a really
intuitive being, aren't you?
>>KIPP: I mean, yeah.
Sure.
I think so.
I mean, I believe in intuition.
But my definition of
intuition is sort of
like more somatic
like nudges, and then
with pattern recognition.
It's kind of like there's
a phrase from the Islam
tradition.
It's like, trust Allah,
but tie up your camel.
You know?
I kind of like believe
in both of those ideas.
So I definitely make
intuitive style decisions.
I definitely trust
my gut for sure.
I don't have visions of things.
I just have a feeling, a
felt sense of certain things.
But I also love the data.
So I'm kind of
like half analytics
and then half intuition.
And the combination of
the two is powerful.
You know?
>>LISA: There are a lot of
people that are watching
right now that says, that's me.
>>KIPP: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
That makes a lot of sense.
And so when you
work with people,
you work with people in terms
of-- you call them clients.
But these are people
that have come
to you that really want to
work out trauma in their life,
right?
>>KIPP: Yeah.
Well, they want to--
usually when
someone comes to me,
they've done the meditation.
They've done the chanting.
They've done the--
like all the things
that you think someone would
do, and they've come far.
It's not like they-- they're
not-- it's not working.
But they've hit this
upper limit where
they can't go any further
because they haven't gone
internal in terms of what's
going on with their trauma
history, right?
And what's interesting
about spiritual--
the spiritual world, and the
personal development world,
and the mental health world--
they all have it in common--
which is unintentional-- or,
well, in the mental health
space, it's intentional.
But the other two,
unintentional trauma of denial,
where they say, oh,
don't talk about that.
That's the negative thinking,
or that's a limiting belief.
Reframe it to
something over here.
But that's like actually what's
called dismissive positivity,
where you're like, oh, no.
Just change your thinking.
You'll be fine.
Without being able to witness
and empathize with someone
in that current state.
Even if you go back and read
like the old Abraham material,
OK?
I just recently reread
it, because I was like,
maybe I'm crazy.
If you go back and read that
stuff, they-- in chapter 7
or 8 of "Ask and It Is Given,"
they talk about trauma.
And sometimes the better
feeling or thought
is just something
that's relieving.
And being witnessed
in your trauma
is very-- a very powerful
relieving situation to be in.
So we have to
reframe how we look
at a lot of the
spiritual material
and the personal
element material
to be trauma informed, not
so that we can stay negative,
but so that we can
witness somebody's wound
with a lot of empathy
and compassion,
and then help them
out of it from there.
And we want to meet
people where they are.
So that's why I
help people do, is
they've tried a lot
of stuff, and they
want to go the next level but
their nervous system won't
let them because it's not safe.
And we find out why,
because of their history.
>>LISA: It's more of
a spiritual bypass--
>>KIPP: Totally.
>>LISA: I can go to
this mountaintop,
or do this practice, and
never pay attention to the--
and then I've heard
so many times,
oh, you don't need to go there.
You don't need to
remember the trauma.
You don't need to remember it.
>>KIPP: It's-- that
is-- that-- what--
when someone says that,
what they're saying is,
I don't know how to
help you with that.
[LAUGHS] Right?
You do.
And it's not you
have to live there.
And it's not like you
have to dwell on it,
and ruminate on it.
>>LISA: Nobody wants
to go back there.
>>KIPP: But when people
realize, like, oh, my god.
That's why I do this
behavior, that make sense.
And, I don't have to
be ashamed about that.
I've actually done a really
good job surviving up until now,
staying safe.
Like, good job.
Sorry.
I untucked the mic.
Good job, you know?
Then it gives context
to changing the behavior
in a different way.
Because we take this
perfectionistic kind of idea
and imposter syndrome,
and we apply it
to personal development
and spirituality,
and we beat ourselves
up for things
that are our survival
defense mechanisms
that have kept us safe.
And when we can
acknowledge that,
that's how we start to get free.
>>LISA: Can I ask you a question
about the quote "millennial
generation."
And I don't want to label or
put anyone in or put anyone
in a category, right?
But I'm talking about
maybe 20-, 30-somethings.
When it's such an
amazing time and culture
for this group of people because
they're in this incredible tech
world, where things can
move so fast, but yet
it keeps us so external.
>>KIPP: Yes
>>LISA: Very connected,
but external.
All of the attention
is on the external.
So where is that authenticity,
that daily practice,
and what will happen
in their 40s and 50s?
Like, can you help
me understand that?
>>KIPP: Yeah, well, I think--
that's a big question,
because where we're heading
is man and machine merging, OK?
So it's not man-- like, James
Cameron, man versus machine.
No, it's man becomes
and merges with machine.
So that's what's happening.
Like, you have a phone
and you're already
uploading things to the cloud.
You're already starting
to merge with it.
But it's the appropriate amount
based on what's healthy for us.
And there's a huge
study that just came out
from the World Health
Organization about how
a certain amount of screen
time actually prohibits
neurotransmitter
production and is
maybe one of the main causes
of a lot of the mental health
issues we're having right now.
So too much screen time,
just like anything, right?
Too much water is not
good for you, either.
Too much screen
time is not good.
What's beautiful about
it is that there's
a lot of strength in it, because
the diversity is accepted.
Because kids these days,
and millennials, like,
they know about
everything globally.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: The problem
is, there's a lot
of emotional disconnection
and isolation
because relating
to a screen is not
the same as what we're doing
right now, co-regulating person
to person.
And also being
known and being seen
and being heard by important
people in your life.
That's part of what
we need as a person
and as a species to be able
to thrive emotionally and have
all of our systems work--
coupled with the idea of
having a purpose and meaning.
So having that external
drive is important,
but what my prediction is is
that all of the stuff that's
going to be, you know, like,
basic kind of stuff that's,
like, transactional things
is going to be replaced
by artificial intelligence.
And the skill of
the future that's
going to be most important
are interpersonal skills,
to be able to learn how to
connect with other people
is going to be the most
important skill set moving
forward because all
the other stuff,
like the transactional stuff, is
being more and more taking care
of every day, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: But that
interpersonal dynamic,
if you look at
the division we're
having in the world today, it's
all interpersonal conflict.
That's what it is.
>>LISA: It's interesting.
Because-- so I go to
this one particular bank,
and you have to go through--
get that arm, and the ticket,
and then when you leave
there is a guard shack there,
and I always used to have a nice
interaction with that person.
The guard shack got torn down.
It replaced it with a machine.
Well, the machine didn't work.
Unfortunately, these
people had to stand
outside, without a
shack, in the heat,
and hand the
tickets, which was--
it just seemed-- the whole
thing just seemed wrong.
But it was the example
of technology replacing
humans, and then technology
breaking, and then
human suffering.
[CHUCKLES] But
there is eventually
going to have to be
that inner connection,
that interpersonal peace,
that needs to exist.
I think it will always
have to be there.
I might be old-school--
>>KIPP: No.
It has to be.
>>LISA: So you're
saying the same thing.
>>KIPP: It has to be because--
well, if you look at, like,
the types of problems humanity
has faced over the years,
even though what's happening
today is atrocious and cannot
be excused, way
better than, like,
worldwide bubonic
plague outbreaks,
the Crusades happening.
Like, the quality of
our life in general
has improved exponentially as
technology has moved along,
and what's happening now is, we
don't have these basic survival
problems for the
most part anymore.
Certain communities
and certain places
obviously are still
marginalized and do.
But as a whole, humanity
and our life expectancy,
all these are going up, OK?
The first person to
be 125 is alive today.
So, like, all that's amazing,
and so the problems that we're
having now are more
interpersonal problems
and the understanding of,
like, what's your experience
and what's my
experience, and how
to coexist with
different experiences
when we disagree about
passionate things.
And so that's what we
have to figure out.
And because, you know, it's
for sure the basic tasks
are going to be
removed more and more
and more every day by artificial
intelligence and automation,
stuff like that.
And it's going to make
our life more abundant,
but to really enjoy it, we have
to do our interpersonal work.
So the future for people--
you know, if you're
starting college right now,
please focus on
philosophy, focus
on interpersonal dynamics,
focus on attachment theory,
focus on these types of things.
Because, you know, most people
who are in college right now,
if they're starting
as a freshman,
by the time they graduate,
their job won't exist.
[CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: I've said
that-- yes, absolutely.
I have one going
into college soon,
and so yes, when she gets out,
it's all going to be changed.
Psychology is a great
degree because you
need to know the study of human
beings, which we're always
going to be.
>>KIPP: That's right.
>>LISA: And it is definitely
a changing environment.
So how does this
relate to purpose?
>>KIPP: Well, so
there's going to be,
and-- well, there
already is, but there
will be more major
existential issues
around what is my purpose.
Because if I don't-- if I'm not
supposed to be a bank teller,
and my job's been
eliminated, now what?
So if you look at
the data, both--
all the spiritual texts
already talk about purpose.
Everyone-- you know, Wayne Dyer,
Rick Warren-- everyone talks
about purpose, so we know that.
The clinical data
is fascinating.
There's a peer-reviewed
study that just came out
that shows that, when you have
a sense of purpose in life,
it reduces all-cause mortality,
meaning you live longer.
It can add up to 10 to
15 years to your life.
It can, like, reduce
the bad cholesterol,
increase the good cholesterol.
There's so many different
biomarkers that can improve.
And in our work, what I've
seen with our clients is,
when someone has a sense
of purpose, meaning,
why am I doing this?
What's driving me?
What's motivating me to do this?
Why do I care about this?
They earn more.
They give more.
They share more.
They become healthier, and it
contributes to a healing path,
as well.
The problem is, if you don't
have a sense of purpose, that's
where you go to depression
and all kinds of negative,
down-- because we're born
to have meaning and use.
We have to have usefulness.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: And it can change
and shift over time, right?
But the emotional states
tend to stay the same, which
is a good indicator.
>>LISA: What if you
have multiple purposes?
I mean, people have side
hustles and many different jobs,
multiple jobs.
What if there's
multiple purposes?
>>KIPP: Well, so if you
look at the data and--
I obsess over this stuff, right?
>>LISA: Please!
Yeah.
>>KIPP: So when you're engaged
in whatever your purpose, what
you're really loving is your
emotional state in that time,
right?
>>LISA: Right, yes.
>>KIPP: And so, no matter what
the physical manifestations
are, you want to
make sure you're
hitting those emotional targets,
which is why we have-- you
know, we set a goal
because we want to be
able to feel something, right?
When a relationship-- usually,
someone's state of relationship
isn't, I hope I have a warm
beating heart next to me
only, right?
>>LISA: [CHUCKLES]
>>KIPP: Maybe that is your
standard, but most people, not,
right?
So it's, I want to feel love and
connection, intimacy, passion,
aliveness, growth.
Like, that's what people
want in a relationship.
Financially, it's, I want
to feel free or safe, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: And so you
want to keep your focus
on the emotional
content, and you
want to-- that's
that self-awareness,
that somatic intelligence,
that helps us understand
how am I feeling,
and then what do
I have to do to feel this way?
And that's why I started getting
into sort of the mental health
and trauma space,
because what prevents you
from feeling those
emotions of purpose
are past traumas and your
nervous system trying
to keep you safe.
And so that's why I kind of
took a left turn into that work,
because everyone
wants to feel good,
but there's so many
reasons why they don't.
[CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: I see.
I see.
Well, what about when you're
passionate about something,
and you know that's
your purpose,
and it just isn't working?
It's just not working out?
Is that unresolved
emotional trauma?
>>KIPP: May-- well,
yes, it depends, right?
Like, I would probably add
the word to the end of that--
"yet," right?
It hasn't worked out yet.
So it's how long are
you in the game, right?
And like, things are a happy or
a sad ending depending on where
you stop a story, right?
So, like, I always like
to think about, like,
what happened after
live happily ever after?
You know, like, Prince Charming
cheats on her or something,
you know?
>>LISA: [CHUCKLES]
>>KIPP: Like, who knows?
Like, 30 years later
what's going on?
Marriage, counseling,
divorce, attorneys, and stuff.
So who knows if it's
actually a happy ending.
I think it's earned every
day in a relationship.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KIPP: But you got to hang
with something long enough.
And, for sure, it can
be unresolved trauma,
and I'll give you a
really good example.
So we had a client once.
She came to us just
off food stamps,
and she was trying to break
through financially in her
business, and she just
couldn't, and she couldn't.
With enough intervention
and conversations
over about an hour or so, got
down to her trauma history,
which was significant.
And the reason why she wasn't
moving forward on Instagram
and wasn't selling
stuff is because she
felt, if she was public,
her nervous system thought
she'd get hurt again.
If I'm seen, if I'm seen
like I was back then,
I'll be hurt again.
But not only that.
Her nervous system
was so brilliant--
my kids will get hurt, too.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>KIPP: So no webinar
strategy or Instagram strategy
or any strategy is
going to work if you're
fighting that kind of a
nervous system response,
especially because
it's unconscious.
You don't even know.
But when she realized that
the people who hurt her
were still winning by
her staying small--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KIPP: --within six months she
was doing a $50,000 a month.
>>LISA: Wow, that peace--
>>KIPP: Right?
So it's that type of
[SNAPS FINGERS] shift--
that's a great example
of purpose, right?
Like, I'm going to
prove the haters wrong.
It's a great starter purpose.
>>LISA: Yes, it is.
And you-- do you coach
people doing media,
bringing their purpose and
passion into the digital space?
>>KIPP: Yeah.
Yeah, it's funny.
Like, you know, you
look at people--
some of my clients
have been through--
their trauma history is intense.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: And they're more afraid
of Instagram or Facebook Live
than talking about the worst
day of their life, right?
>>LISA: Huh.
>>KIPP: And it's amazing
to me how much visibility
can be very hard
for people who have
a trauma history or any type
of criticism in their history,
and that type of stuff.
And especially-- I
work with mostly women.
If you look at the sort
of systemic messaging
to women over the last 2,000,
3,000 years, it's been,
be quiet.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: Right?
And, oh, if you're
going to use your voice
and be a naturopathic doctor,
we're going to call you a witch
and burn you at the stake.
Please be quiet.
>>LISA: Yes, yes, yes.
>>KIPP: Right?
So if you look at
that data, it's
not really in the DNA
expression for women
to speak up and
take up space, which
is what's so beautiful about
what's happening right now
is, that's being changed, right?
The DNA expression is
starting to change.
It's becoming more
and more acceptable.
>>LISA: Social media
gives you that power.
Yeah.
>>KIPP: That's right, but it's
weird because I've never--
I don't have many
male clients who
are like, oh, man, I have a
hard time taking up space.
They just kind of
assume that they can,
where with women, it's
not-- it's not misogynistic.
It's just what I've
seen with our data.
It's like, they have a
harder time with that.
But once they get there, they
crush it, and what's amazing,
too, is, you look at the data
on women entrepreneurship--
a lot of the venture
capitalists who
are investing in
female-backed startups
are seeing, like,
a 30%, 40%, 50%
greater return on their
investment than male founders,
which is also pretty amazing.
>>LISA: Oh, wow,
that is incredible.
>>KIPP: Yeah, yeah.
>>LISA: That is-- yes!
>>KIPP: Now we
know why they were
kicked down for so long,
because they're better!
[CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: [LAUGHS] Well,
we've got a lot of passion.
Speaking of passion and purpose,
take a look at this video here.
We're talking about
Functional Life Coaching.
Take a look.
>>KIPP: When you look in the
world today, what's happening
is, people-- you know, whether
it's the political divide
or you're seeing what's
happening with Harvey
Weinstein and all this,
the whole conversation is
about trauma, and that's
what's surfacing right now.
If you don't heal
your trauma, then it
just becomes coping
mechanisms to cope
with the trauma, such
as drugs, alcohol,
promiscuous sex, gossip,
toxic relationships,
soul-sucking jobs,
to violence bigotry,
racism-- who here's done coping,
and you want to actually enjoy
your life long-term?
Yes?
Let's see by a show of hands.
Even in the face of people
you despise, you can't stand,
you can't tolerate, underneath
these awful values and this
behavior that you cannot
justify as anywhere near OK,
underneath that is trauma.
Which means that you
can love that person
but not like that person, just
as Gandhi, Martin Luther King,
and the original Christian
values ask us to do, as well,
and it's the time
to practice that.
>>WOMAN: His mission of
wanting to end trauma,
he's doing just that.
He just realizes that we
all experience trauma--
>>KIPP: That's how
addiction rolls.
>>WOMAN: --and it needs
to come up, be looked at,
and be healed so that
we can move forward.
>>KIPP: That's why I created
Functional Life Coaching,
and it basically helps
people rapidly identify
and accelerates
the healing of what
those root mental and
emotional causes are.
I'm the most unlikely character
to work with mostly women.
And a lot of the women
I work with are also
of some kind of minority
status, and they're feeling
very marginalized right now.
And what I know to
be true is, there's
underlying emotional trauma.
>>LISA: It must feel so good
to help people at that level.
>>KIPP: Yeah, it's weird because
that's where I live, like,
365 days a year.
It's weird not to help
people at that level now.
You know, like, when
we have conversations
that are a little bit more
surface, I'm like, no, no,
but let's talk
about your history.
And what's amazing is,
people are becoming
more and more open to that.
>>LISA: Really?
>>KIPP: It's not so pass and
so sort of not talked about
as much.
>>LISA: What is it
when someone comes
to one of these amazing
events, what is it that they're
hoping to change in their life?
>>KIPP: It depends.
We work a lot with a
lot of entrepreneurs
and practitioners, so
you know, people still
want the same stuff, right?
They want money.
They want love.
And they want to be
fit, and they want
to be happy, basically, right?
So that's what they
want, but they're
realizing that what
they have to do to get
there is maybe a
different approach
than they've taken before.
And when you look
at things through
that trauma-informed
lens, what's amazing is,
purpose is one of
the best things
to help heal trauma, for sure.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KIPP: But also, the things
that you did that maybe you
felt bad about or hurtful about,
or you were mad at yourself
about, or guilt or shame,
start to make a lot more sense.
You start to go, oh,
that's why I did that.
Like, that was a
defensive strategy.
And even if it's--
you know, we were talking about
this-- you know, kale, right?
Like, I'm eating my
kale salad, right?
That's better than
shooting up heroin.
But if I'm not addressing
my emotional stuff,
if I'm not looking
at my history,
if I'm not looking at my
somatic or my felt emotions that
are coming up, and I'm
pushing those down,
no kale is going to
help you regulate
those emotional states.
Now they can absolutely
help you have
anti-inflammatory
properties and not
have inflammatory
responses, which
also cause emotional
problems and dysregulation.
But at the end of
the day, you still
have to do your emotional
work, and that's
where everything exists.
>>LISA: So you're saying
things like kale or too much
exercise or too much yoga
are all coping mechanisms
to overcome or to kind
of hide the trauma?
>>KIPP: If you don't
do the trauma work.
They're not bad, right?
Like, I'm not against
the kale salad.
I'm not against
a green smoothie.
I'm not against any
of those things.
But, you know, it's kind of
like the people who go vegan,
but all they eat are vegan,
gluten-free chocolate chip
cookies.
Like, OK, well, you're vegan,
but you're not healthy, right?
So you can do yoga
all day long--
I'm all for yoga--
but if you're not doing
your somatic work;
if you don't know
what your history is
and why you lash out
at people; if you
don't know how to repair a
relationship where there's
a fight or a hard
thing happened,
and you just kind of blame
them or kind of differentiate
yourself and just kind
of do your own thing.
Or if you avoid it, or if
you collapse and only do
what the other person wants,
kale's not going to save you.
[LAUGHS]
>>LISA: Don't beat up my kale?
I love my tail.
[CHUCKLES] I
understand, though, yes.
It can also go into that
spiritual bypass category.
>>KIPP: That's right.
>>LISA: And we want to get
into the weeds with it.
When you do the videos
that you do, and they
get hundreds of thousands of
views, when you're putting
something like that
together, where
do you reach from in order
to find where people are at?
Where do you get that from?
>>KIPP: Yeah, I, um--
well, a couple of things.
I always-- I love working
with people and, like,
hearing their stories and
seeing what's trending
with our clients, right?
Because there's common
themes, usually.
And I like to speak
from that place.
Once we get down below
the kind of formalities
and the easy talk, weed under
what's really up for somebody.
I like speaking to
that part of people.
It's a truer place.
It's below, you know, Republican
or Democrat or black or white.
It's, like, at a
soul, human level.
I like to talk there, and
I know I'm onto something
if I'm scared to say it.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>KIPP: So I say the
stuff I'm scared to say.
Not because I want to be
defiant and just kind of, like,
go, like, whatever to somebody.
But like, ooh, this one's--
that's a hard one for me to say.
Who am I to say that?
That's when I know I'm
really onto something,
and when I came out with
the Claim Your Power book--
you know, I wrote it
before Donald Trump
got elected, right?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KIPP: And then he
got elected, and I
was like, how do I market this?
Like, I don't even know how to--
I just thought, it's
going to take a year
to figure out how to
market it in that era,
because everything
changed, right?
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>KIPP: The political, social
environment completely changed.
It didn't feel right to just
market a book about purpose.
Because it had to
mean something, right?
And I had to also
figure out, well, I
have a lot of Republican
friends who voted for him,
and they're not racist, and--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: My liberal friends
aren't snowflakes, you know?
>>LISA: Conscious
conservatives, yes.
>>KIPP: So like, what are
we talking about, actually?
And then how do I talk about
race and all those things?
So I took some time to
really think that through,
to be able to actually
have a conversation
and not have what happened
to, say, Matt Damon when
he talked about Me Too and there
was this big backlash, right?
>>LISA: Well, you would be
furthering the polarization.
You want to bring
the divide closer.
>>KIPP: That's right.
>>LISA: And the only
way to really do that
is through the heart.
>>KIPP: And to talk about
the underlying issues
without it negating something.
Like, I can never understand
what racism feels like.
I have no idea.
I have white privilege.
That's something-- I have
white male privilege.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KIPP: I don't
have any clue what
it's like to be an
African-American woman.
>>LISA: That's honest, yes.
Yes.
>>KIPP: No clue, right?
And whatever I've been through
with my traumatic history
doesn't-- that doesn't
negate my traumatic history.
And someone who isn't
in that perspective,
it doesn't negate their
traumatic history.
If we can actually have
a conversation about,
how are you coping?
How am I coping?
What's working for you?
I mean, if you look
at, for example,
the African-American community,
amazing coping strategies.
Gospel bunches-- I mean, so much
co-regulation and community,
right?
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>KIPP: Right?
Like, went to a gospel
brunch once, and I was like,
what do I have in my life
that brings me this much joy?
>>LISA: I know!
It's spirit-raising!
Yes.
>>KIPP: Why did I-- who-- no
one told me about this, right?
Like, I want to go gospel brunch
every day from now on, right?
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>KIPP: But when we
meet at that level--
that's why I could have
conversations with our clients
who happen to be a minority
or African American
about what's really
true for them
and, also, witness
what is it like for you
to experience racism every day.
What is that like?
And I can learn, too.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: But I also know
that, underneath that,
there's still that
disconnection.
There's still the
emotional dysregulation,
and that's-- when
you dwell there,
it's below the
superficial things.
>>LISA: It's one of
those things where,
when you focus on the pain,
you're going to get more pain.
If you focus on
the trauma, you're
going to get more
trauma, but there's
a strange thing that
happens, though,
when someone talks
about the trauma,
and the conversation
goes to this--
I know you've heard this before.
(IN GENTLE VOICE) All
you need to do is love.
Everything is about love.
When you go to love,
then everything's OK.
>>KIPP: [CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: [CHUCKLES] Do you
know that conversation?
>>KIPP: Well, the
thing about it--
>>LISA: It's true, but it
gets us disconnected again.
>>KIPP: It's kind
of like sequencing,
like what do you say
in what order, right?
So if someone comes
you, and they say--
someone you really love--
you know, oh, my
god, I'm thinking
about killing myself, right?
That would-- for most people,
you would be so scared, right?
Here's the response.
First of all, do
you have a plan?
If the answer is no,
then it's probably not
going to be a big deal.
The second thing
you say is, thank
you so much for telling me.
I'm glad you feel safe
enough to tell me that.
Just that, right there, they're
going to feel a ton of relief.
Because they're
sharing it with you.
Same thing with depression.
I'm so depressed.
I don't know what to do.
Don't say, oh, go to rehab or
go see a shrink or psychiatrist.
Go, thank you for
telling me that.
You-- people-- you need to
have that level of validation.
And empathetic witness
to someone's pain
is, like, the first
step to healing trauma.
Now if you do that too much,
that becomes commiserating,
so you want to elevate
beyond it at some point.
But if you don't start there,
you can't build on top of it
with the higher principles.
>>LISA: So love is a great idea,
but there is a step process
to get there.
>>KIPP: Well, that
is love, though.
If you say to
somebody, like, that
must be really hard for you.
>>LISA: Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
>>KIPP: Thank you
for telling me.
That's love, right?
And it's just not-- it's just
not, now feel better, right?
>>LISA: Is what The
Daily Love was built on?
>>KIPP: Um-- yeah, I think so.
I think so.
What The Daily Love was,
really, sort of a creative arts
therapy for me, right?
Like, I was just kind of writing
about what I was going through,
and it was kind of my
own personal therapy
out loud for people.
[CHUCKLES] Every day.
>>LISA: Yeah, that's
pretty much what
you've always done, though.
>>KIPP: Yeah.
Pretty much.
>>LISA: That-- yeah.
But then there's these
great strategies.
So there's a whole idea
of what to do, and really
spend some time
writing in your journal
about coping with
different things
and how your coping strategies
are working or not working,
what you've missed out on.
And I love this, that you have.
So if I don't have
a great romance,
what have I missed out on?
If I don't have a
great career or job,
what have I missed out on?
And you really-- can you go
through some of those with us
to help us understand what to--
what that dichotomy does?
What does that do?
>>KIPP: Yeah, so
the thing about it
is that, like-- so
the name of the game
is emotional regulation.
So what does that mean?
This thermostat, right?
So if-- you know, you have
a thermostat in your home.
If it gets too hot,
then it turns on the AC
and cools it down.
If it gets too low, it turns
on the heat and brings it up.
Same thing is true-- when
you talk about someone
who's bipolar,
they're high and then
they're low emotionally, right?
>>LISA: OK.
>>KIPP: So the goal is, you want
to stay within a certain range.
If you go too above a range,
you go beyond a threshold,
and that's when you have, like,
psychotic breaks and things you
don't want to have, right?
If you go too low, that's
when you get major depressive
issues.
So you want to stay
within a certain range,
and the goal is to
figure out, what
do I need to do
to feel that way?
And the thing that's the most
important to do these days
is not isolate, physically
and emotionally.
To learn how to be
counted on and how
to count on other people is like
the most important skill set,
and that's something that's
very hard to do today.
So, like, you can sit there
and do your breathing exercises
and your Kundalini yoga.
And you can do all
that stuff-- awesome.
But if you're doing it in
isolation-- and I'm not--
I'm not saying-- someone
could be five feet from you.
You could be laying
next to someone in bed,
but if you're not sharing
your innermost self
with that person, you could
be an inch away from someone
and all alone, right?
And so the goal is to learn how
to create a relationship, two
or three, where
you can actually be
able to share that
part of yourself
in the presence of an empathetic
witness who's not going
to judge you, who's not
going to try to change you,
who's not going to
try to go, OK, now
go do something different.
It's like, I'm
just here with you.
That is the most
important emotional skill
set that you can have.
An event-- and what's
interesting is,
when emotionally that
is witnessed-- you know,
Joseph Campbell
is a great quote,
"Every feeling fully
felt is bliss."
So sometimes you get to
stay with a little bit
longer, bring your
awareness to it,
and it will transform, right?
But we're too busy trying to
change it, negate it, reframe
it, breathe it away, whatever.
To just-- we never
quite get there.
And I think that's one
of the most important
emotional regulation
strategies that are out there,
is that interpersonal
connection is so huge.
>>LISA: And is that
more about community,
or is it something
different than being
a part of a community?
>>KIPP: It's-- community
is important, for sure.
But if you look at,
like, John Bowlby's work
on attachment
theory, which is sort
of how we build
interpersonal, psychological,
and emotional bonds,
we have a core
need to have a special
someone or someones--
a very small number
of people who
are the most important
people to us.
And when we have those
people in our lives,
that's why when we lose--
The only thing-- that's
called secure attachment.
The only thing that's hard
about secure attachment
is you're going to lose
it at some point, right?
>>LISA: True.
>>KIPP: But when
you have it, like,
you want to share the
good stuff with them,
and you want to share the
bad stuff because that's
how we regulate as
beings, as human beings.
>>LISA: Do you mean-- back
to losing it at some point,
you mean when the person,
like a child, moves away,
or a parent dies or something?
And eventually,
well, a dog passes--
>>KIPP: And that's why
people are so scared
of having that
secure attachment.
>>LISA: Yes!
Definitely.
>>KIPP: Because I'll lose
it, but it's like, well--
so let's assume, yes,
you're going to lose it,
but you're going to enjoy
it until you lose it.
That's the goal.
And knowing that
you're going to lose it
makes it even more special.
>>LISA: Well, it goes
back to the trauma,
though, because when it
was lost the last time,
you never fully
recovered from it.
So you don't ever want to have
a deep, intimate relationship
again in fear of
having that pain
again, that experience
of that loss.
>>KIPP: Which is actually living
in that loss daily, right?
And, I mean, culture
trains us for this, right?
Like, how many times
in every movie, right
when someone gets the thing they
want, it's ripped away, right?
>>LISA: Yes!
>>KIPP: And the messaging
is, you can want something,
but you can't have it.
And I--
>>LISA: So then,
why want it at all,
and there goes the
purpose, out the window.
>>KIPP: Exactly.
Versus, like, hey-- and
that's what I love about Bren
Brown's work.
She talks about
being in the arena.
Part of being in the arena is
going to someone that you love
and saying, you know, you
actually have my whole heart,
and can you please
be careful with that?
That is so scary, to
count on somebody.
Oh, my god, that is so scary.
>>LISA: It is.
It is.
>>KIPP: But that's
the good stuff!
That's where all
the good stuff is.
>>LISA: But what if that
person lets you down?
>>KIPP: Well, so the cure
for that is-- first of all,
so if you're in an
abusive relationship,
that's not your person.
I'm just going to say
that as a disclaimer.
But they will let you down.
So the goal in a relationship is
to learn how to repair, right?
So if you have a good
repair strategy--
so I have a repair strategy
with my partner Jenna.
So sometimes I get
triggered-- regularly,
because that's just
how life is, right?
>>LISA: What we do, yeah.
>>KIPP: And so, like, I kind
of get, like, kind of like--
I get kind of, like,
high and mighty
when I get triggered
sometimes, and I don't
want to admit I'm wrong, right?
That's kind of my thing.
So usually, I need,
like, 20 or 30 minutes,
and when I realize
I'm triggered,
I say something like-- because
my brain's been hijacked,
I go, hey, nobody's flying
the plane right now.
I'll be right back, OK?
>>LISA: [CHUCKLES]
>>KIPP: OK?
I'll just-- I've got to
go calm down, all right?
And I come back, and I'm still--
I know when I'm ready
to start to repair
when I say something like this.
I'll go up, and I'll go,
so I accept your apology.
>>LISA: [CHUCKLES]
>>KIPP: Right?
Like, just something that's
like-- but what-- and she and I
both know that what I'm
trying to say is I'm sorry,
but I'm still in my
ego a little too much.
But I'm trying to repair.
And then that's a
signal of safety to her
to go, oh, OK, cool.
And then all of a sudden we
can start to kind of calm
each other down from
that place, right?
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>KIPP: And the
thing about repair
is, you can't judge
someone's repair process
and try, because they're
not going to get it right.
So you want to be able to, you
know, when someone's repairing,
do your best so when
you're ready to repair,
then also kind of
extend that white flag.
>>LISA: Well, that's all
great if we have a Jenna,
but what about when we don't
have that conscious partner
like that?
Or a parent who has, still,
the triggering mechanisms,
and they're still operating
the old patterns totally
and completely unaware of them?
>>KIPP: Yeah, well, I would just
say, don't go to a dry well.
[CHUCKLES] I know well full--
>>LISA: Well, you
have to sometimes.
Sometimes you live with
these people or work
with these people.
>>KIPP: Yeah, I
mean, maybe, but I
would want to
challenge that and get
into why you think you have to.
You know, because--
>>LISA: Well, what do you mean?
>>KIPP: Well, that
usually speaks
to, like, obligation, which is
usually rooted in guilt, right?
So it's more like, I
feel guilty if I don't.
Usually it's something--
>>LISA: What if it's a boss?
>>KIPP: Well, you know--
so sometimes on social
media, someone will say--
I'll talk about trauma.
This happened just today,
actually, and someone said,
that explains why my
boss is such a jerk
and treats me like crap!
And my response
to them was, yes,
and it also explains
why you let him.
>>LISA: Whoa!
>>KIPP: [CHUCKLES] Right?
Because it's like, that's--
that's their level of safety.
>>LISA: Totally.
>>KIPP: Right?
They expect that, so that's
what they're going to get.
And expectation
isn't just a mindset.
It's a neural expectancy,
like your whole nervous system
expects it, and you've
got to break free from it.
But the thing is, criticism
can feel safer than joy.
>>LISA: Yes, and
you also make a lot
of compromises when somebody
is paying you for something.
>>KIPP: That's right.
>>LISA: And then you sacrifice
your dignity sometimes.
>>KIPP: That's right.
And that's like Caroline Myss's
work around the Prostitute
archetype, right?
Like, what do you
sell your soul for?
What do you sell
your happiness for?
And that's where the trauma is.
It's like, why would you--
what is it about
yourself that you
think is so not
good or not worthy
that you have to put up
with this to make money?
Like, there's so many ways--
people make $100,000 a year
these days playing video games
online on Twitch.
Like, there's other
ways to make money.
It's always about
your neural expectancy
and what you think you're worth,
which comes from your history.
>>LISA: That's such
an interesting point,
though, because there's a
fine line there of entitlement
and really, actually, working
hard to make something work.
>>KIPP: Yes, that's--
absolutely, I mean, yes.
There's going to be
hard work, right?
We're built for resilience.
If you look at, like,
our history when
we were hunters and gatherers,
you know, we were home
20% or 30% of the time.
So if we had that safety
20% to 30% of the time,
and the rest of time that safety
is what gives us the resilience
to go out and hunter gather, or
in this case, build a business,
and then come back.
But I know when I come
back to my partner,
I'm coming back to safety.
I know that.
Now that wasn't always
the case, and we've
been together almost 10 years,
and we've got a lot of work.
It doesn't just
magically emerge.
It is hard work.
>>LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>>KIPP: But it's the good work.
It's the work worth doing.
>>LISA: Yes.
It goes-- you go into it here.
All right, well, we're going
to take another look here
at a video all about purpose.
And really, really
connect to this.
Take a look.
[NEWSCASTERS AND COMMENTATORS
SPEAKING OVER EACH OTHER]
>> A huge new Pew Research
Center study finds us more
divided than ever.
>> An officer opened
fire on Philando Castile.
>> Both candidates have
ratcheted up their attacks on--
>> The number of soldiers
killing themselves began
to rise sharply.
>> The largest iceberg in human
history could break off from
Antarctica literally any minute.
>> Breaking news out of Orlando.
A terror attack on--
>> an epidemic which is taking
more than 80 lives a day.
>>TRUMP: We will make
America great again.
>> What did you do when
everything was on the line?
>>KIPP: The world will
try to convince you
that there's nothing
you can do to change it.
>>TRUMP: I alone can fix it!
>>KIPP: But there
is a power that
allows ordinary people to
do extraordinary things.
Great leaders have it.
>>MARTIN LUTHER
KING: I have a dream.
>>BARACK OBAMA: Yes, we can.
>>KIPP: Great
entrepreneurs have it.
>>STEVE JOBS: Your
time is limited,
so don't waste it living
someone else's life.
There is no reason not
to follow your heart.
>>KIPP: People who
change the world have it.
>>MALALA YOUSAFZAI: They
thought that the bullet
would silence us.
But they failed.
[INSPIRING MUSIC PLAYING]
>>KIPP: You have
this power, too.
When you are
inspired by purpose,
all your thoughts
break their bonds.
>>MARK ZUCKERBERG: Purpose is
what creates true happiness.
>>KIPP: Your mind
transcends limitations.
Your consciousness expands
in every direction.
>>NEIL ARMSTRONG: That's
one small for man, one
giant leap for mankind.
>>KIPP: And you find
yourself in a new, great,
and wonderful world.
Dormant forces, faculties,
and talents come alive,
and you discover yourself to
be a greater person by far
than you ever dreamed
yourself to be.
[CROWD CHEERING]
The only difference between
life on the world's terms
and having everything you've
ever wanted is one thing.
Purpose.
Purpose is the one thing
that changes everything.
Nothing can stop an idea
whose time has come.
The power to live your
purpose isn't in their hands.
It's in yours.
>>MARK ZUCKERBERG:
Purpose is that
feeling that you are a part of
something bigger than yourself,
that you are needed, and
that you have something
better ahead to work for.
You are graduating into a
world that needs purpose,
and it's up to you to create it.
>>KIPP: On September
12th, the time
has come for you to
claim your power.
>>LISA: That-- it just--
it just gives me chills!
>>KIPP: I hadn't seen that in a
while, but that was a good one!
>>LISA: Just gives me
chills to watch that.
I mean, it really is inspiring.
And--
>>KIPP: Aw, that's awesome.
>>LISA: Yeah, you come up
with all of this yourself,
these ideas--
it comes from deep
within you, doesn't it?
>>KIPP: Yeah, well, I'm also--
actually, that trailer,
I was telling you
while it was playing, was
inspired by a Star Wars
trailer.
So I saw a Star--
I saw the Star Wars-- because,
you know, like, I love when--
the J.J. Abrams Star
Wars trailers really
get me every time, and I'm
like, I like to deconstruct it.
Same thing with the secret
trailer, when it came out.
I'm like, what is it about
the trailer that gets me?
So I kind of have a list of
certain things that they do,
and then I take that to my team.
I say, hey, guys.
Let's model this,
these certain elements
we want to hit, to try to
recreate that emotional state.
And it got me.
I haven't seen that
in about a year or so.
[CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: I love it.
You know what?
I love it.
You don't have a
marketing degree.
You have a degree
in authenticity.
>>KIPP: [CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: You really
look towards people,
and you probably answer
all of your comments.
>>KIPP: Most of them, yeah.
Most of them.
My favorite ones answer to are
the ones that are the haters.
Those are the most-- those
are the best ones to talk to.
Because they're just confused
people who are actually
probably like you,
but they don't
know why they don't like you.
>>LISA: Well, that's
why they're engaging.
They really want an answer.
What type of hate?
>>KIPP: You know, during the
Dr. Ford, Kavanaugh stuff--
you know, it's not
about politics for me.
It's just the public is very
misguided about what trauma is.
So I was putting out a
lot of information about,
like, what trauma is and
why I believe her, and stuff
like that.
And so many people
were, like, you
know, disagreeing with that.
>>LISA: Right, right, right.
>>KIPP: And I was educating them
on, like, well, actually here's
the truth, you know?
And you know, one
guy was a Navy SEAL,
and how do you engage
with a Navy SEAL?
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KIPP: He's like, you
don't understand trauma.
And I said, you're right.
I don't understand your trauma.
And I said, but I need to
understand your trauma just
like a doctor doesn't
need to know what it feels
like to get a bullet in
their leg to pull one out
of yours, right?
Like, I don't need to get shot
in the leg to know how to help,
and what I know for sure is,
you know, this is what trauma.
And about three or four comments
later, he goes, well, you know,
there was a guy in my
platoon you helped out.
He says you're pretty
good, so I guess you're OK.
You know, or
something like that.
So that acknowledgment
of someone's experience
is so important, too,
to be able to understand
that these are passionate topics
that people are talking about.
And that's why I
engage on social,
too, because I talk about
things I care about.
It's not just some random
quote card that-- you know,
pulled a quote from the
internet or something.
Like, the stuff I post is
stuff I really care about.
>>LISA: It's stuff you write.
Yes.
>>KIPP: Right, so that's
why I engage, too.
If it wasn't stuff I cared
about, it wouldn't be there.
[CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: And you have to when
you're engaging at that level.
You have to be ready
for the controversy.
It has to happen.
>>KIPP: Yeah, totally.
>>LISA: To think
it's not going to be
there is kind of ignorant.
>>KIPP: So even when I'm
responding to a hater online,
I'm responding
knowing that that's
who's watching my responses.
So I'm responding for people
who are actually reading it.
Usually I'm not responding
to that person individually.
It's how I would want
my, quote, "base"
to perceive my responses.
That's how I respond.
>>LISA: Everyone is
entitled to an opinion,
and their opinions are gold
based on their experiences
and where they're coming from.
But what can what this
person is saying teach me?
>>KIPP: That's right.
>>LISA: Can they teach me to
have a different perspective?
Can they teach me that maybe
I am a little bit too biased?
Maybe they can
teach me their world
and to have more compassion.
>>KIPP: That's right.
>>LISA: There's so much
to learn from that.
>>KIPP: That's right.
It's true.
>>LISA: Yeah.
And the other thing
is that, you know,
mostly we want to be liked.
You know, this whole idea--
>>KIPP: It's true.
>>LISA: You know, so I mean, you
can put on the comment section
that--
[CHUCKLES] It's hard to read
the comments where, you know,
people are saying, well, I
don't necessarily like that,
or I don't agree with
her and her opinion.
But why do we need to be liked?
>>KIPP: Well, I think we're--
I mean, human beings are
social creatures, right?
And the thing is, the messaging
on kind of "un-", "un-", "un-",
"un-" unconscious level
is, if I'm not liked,
I'm not part of the tribe.
And if I'm not part of
the tribe, I'm vulnerable
and I'm all by myself, and in
the wild, that makes me prey.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>KIPP: The lion can eat me.
>>LISA: Kicked out.
>>KIPP: But if I'm
with my people,
then I will be safe
and together, right?
And so it's that primal thing.
[CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: Got it.
OK, well, how do we get over it?
>>KIPP: [GASPS] Um, you've
got to find your tribe, right?
So that you have your
family of origin,
and then you have the
family you pick, right?
Eventually.
>>LISA: I like that.
>>KIPP: Um, and the
thing is is that--
and sometimes it's
the same family.
But a lot of times-- and
Caroline talks about this.
Caroline Myss talks about this.
You know, when you embark
on a personal development
journey or a spiritual
journey or a healing journey,
you know, that first
chakra, like tribal energy
is really powerful, and you
have to break free from that.
You have to leave the tribe.
Harry Potter did it.
You know, every great, you know,
sort of story starts with that.
>>LISA: It's the hero's journey.
>>KIPP: Right, so it's like--
so you start with a
courageous choice,
and then you keep making
that choice consistently.
And it's hard.
And if have a reason
to do it, that
makes it a little bit easier.
>>LISA: You don't waver.
You don't go back because
then you lose credibility.
>>KIPP: It's hard.
It's super hard.
You know, it's like-- and
you know, your family,
they're going to be there.
And in the beginning, they're
not going to believe you.
And later, they're
going to tell you,
I always knew you
could, and then
after that they're going
to ask you for money.
Like, that's how
it's going to go.
>>LISA: (LAUGHING) Yeah.
Well, at least you know
the game pretty much.
>>KIPP: Right, yeah.
That's how it goes.
>>LISA: You know the
rules, play by the rules.
All right, so I love making
conscious media, which
is what we're doing here
in an interactive process,
rather than just a passive
process of watching.
And so that's great
for entertainment,
but this is really interactive,
so there's a list that you have
here of a
what-am-I-missing-out-on list.
And so I encourage
people, get a journal,
and make a list of these things.
Now, what is the
purpose of this?
So when it comes to romance,
what am I missing out on?
Why would you have
us write about that?
>>KIPP: Well, so the
idea is that, like,
every behavior that we have,
there's something that we think
is good about it.
Like, even if it's, like,
binging on sugar at midnight,
right?
There's something good
in that for people.
>>LISA: Some
secondary gain, yeah.
>>KIPP: Or, like,
having tons of wine
or whatever their thing is.
So like, you also want
to become aware of,
what's it costing you?
Because when you
associate something that's
usually joyful with,
like, some pain,
then it starts to make
a lot more sense--
it helps you loosen
your grasp on things
and helps you realize,
well, you know what?
Like maybe, you know, I
get a lot out of isolating
myself and not going on dates.
Or maybe I get a lot out of
isolating myself and always
having to be right
in my relationship,
but what's it costing me, right?
What's the pain
associated with that, too?
What am I missing out on?
When you become aware of what
you're missing out on, too,
all of a sudden you
start to realize
that there's a price
you're paying to hold
onto a certain behavior?
And it's a really effective,
short, and powerful tool
to help you make quick behavior
change because behavior
change is hard.
>>LISA: So if you're
saying, if I--
when it comes to romance,
what am I missing out?
>>KIPP: So for example, maybe
I've had a history of a bunch
of relationships that I have--
I'm single, and I
don't want love anymore
because love's too hard right.
And so I've been single
for 15 years, all right?
What are you missing out on?
You're missing out
of companionship.
You're missing out on growth.
You're missing out on
healing, the past wounding,
and you're also
missing out on becoming
the person that can actually
experience those things, right?
When you realize
that, it doesn't make
what happened any different.
It just changes how
you relate to it.
And when you can relate
differently to your past,
that's how you
create a new future.
>>LISA: What about
work situations,
like selling your
soul for money?
And those types of situations.
>>KIPP: Same thing, you
know, in a lot of ways.
>>LISA: What are
you missing out on?
>>KIPP: The other
thing, too, is that--
so with that-- so a great
example of that, right,
is people who get
stuck in their job,
and they want to
start a business,
and they think they're an
entrepreneur because they
follow, like, Gary Vaynerchuk
on social media, right?
Following Gary or me or who--
you, or whoever, doesn't
make you an entrepreneur.
It just makes you
a follower, right?
And it's the sidelines thing.
And so when you're in a job that
you don't love, but, you know,
it's paying the bills,
well, there's a good reason.
Maybe you have to put a
kid through college, right?
Maybe--
>>LISA: Right, yeah.
>>KIPP: Who knows
what it is, right?
>>LISA: Mortgage, rent.
Yes.
>>KIPP: Who knows, right?
And there's something
that has to happen,
and you have to be able to,
at some point, say no more.
And that's when you start to--
you know, if life's sending you
signals of, like, crisis
and things like that, that's
when you have to start really
start to pay attention and go,
what's going on here?
And you will get the same lesson
over and over and over and over
and over again until
you pay attention.
It just gets worse,
though, each one.
[CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: You hear stories,
though, all the time
of people that do bail.
They take all that risk.
They make the
decision that honors
themselves and their dignity.
And it works out for the best.
>>KIPP: Yeah, well, and what's--
>>LISA: You hear
it all the time.
>>KIPP: What's even-- what's
interesting about that, too,
is that, like, from the
attachment perspective--
because there's different
attachment styles.
There's avoidant,
anxious, disorganized,
the three primary ones,
and secure, which is rare.
But most people on a spectrum--
like, anxious is just like,
when I have separation,
I'm kind of anxious,
and it's scary for me.
Avoidant is like,
I don't need you.
And disorganized is, come here,
go away, basically, right?
>>LISA: Ah.
>>KIPP: But most people
start with anxious.
That's kind of where they start.
They don't go to super avoidant.
Most people are in
that anxious mindset,
but they start businesses
because they want approval.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KIPP: And if that's why
you're starting a business,
then you're not going
to last very long.
>>LISA: It's not sustainable.
>>KIPP: Right?
That's why the avoidants
are like, I can hang on.
I don't need your approval.
Who cares?
Right?
That's why, when you see
the entrepreneurs who
are most successful,
they're usually
that sort of avoidant
category because they can put
other people's opinions away.
But what you can do to get
out front on that is to say,
to make it be
successful, is, I really
care about what
people think, so who's
going to be my support team?
Who can reinforce that for me?
Because it's probably not
going to be the people
I thought it was going
to be, but I can still
find that support team.
So if you can know
yourself well enough
to know what do I need
to be successful--
I mean, you have
two businesses that
are over 20 years old, right?
Most business don't
make it to 10.
>>LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>>KIPP: Right?
So I mean, that's incredible.
>>LISA: And the same
people that work with me.
>>KIPP: I'm sure you
didn't do that alone.
>>LISA: No, exactly.
I was just going
to say, I've had
the same people that have
worked with me for 17 years.
Or no, probably more than that,
maybe over the 20-year mark.
There's-- yeah, it's
about relationships.
>>KIPP: That's right, and
that's the, like, sexy, not-sexy
answer for most things is,
it's about relationships.
>>LISA: Yeah.
It's true!
Well, we take care of each
other like it's a family.
>>KIPP: That's right.
Because it is.
>>LISA: They're
there for me when--
I mean, my father just
passed, and my team--
seamless, took care of
it, like, right there.
Never even asked.
They just became everything
and just took care of it.
>>KIPP: That's amazing.
>>LISA: He can't.
[SIGHS] That's priceless.
>>KIPP: And stuff like
that could, like, take out
an entrepreneur, you know?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: Because there's
all kinds of stuff
that happens that you
don't see coming, you know?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: So stuff like
that's, like, a big one.
>>LISA: It's always
been like that.
Yeah.
For me, when I had
my head injury,
I had a team that was there,
and it's the same team.
And they-- when
production companies
thought I was lying because
I forgot a lot of things
I was saying, because I
had this horrible injury,
they took over--
they're like, all right,
let's just have these
phone calls for you,
Lis, because right now
you're not in the right head.
>>KIPP: So good.
>>LISA: I'm like, I'm not?
I didn't even know I'm not.
And yeah, it's always
been support and people
and connection and team.
That's always been
a huge thing for me.
>>KIPP: That's the--
and for the avoidants,
they're like, I don't need that.
It's like, well, how's it going?
What are you missing out
on by not having a team?
>>LISA: Exactly.
What is it costing you?
What about health?
Let's talk about
that for a second.
You know, what is it costing
you not to-- or I guess,
what is it costing you to eat
horribly or to eat that binge
thing, or to have that
comfort food, or--
>>KIPP: Totally.
Well, what's interesting, too--
I mean, every case
is so individual,
but a case comes to mind
of one of our clients
who suffered from significant
chronic health issues.
And those were all real, OK?
And-- there's a big "and"--
on a very deep
level, she did not
believe she could be loved
healthy, and so part of her
wanted to stay
sick because that's
how she thought her-- if she was
sick, her husband would stay.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>KIPP: Like, she knew it, but
she was terrified that if she
got well that he wouldn't.
And that was informed
by her history.
He's not a jerk, but her history
is, if I'm in this state,
I'm OK.
And so she has all the
functional doctors,
and you know, that's amazing.
Functional medicine is amazing.
But when she realized
that she could
love and be loved healthy,
all of her symptoms
started to improve rapidly.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KIPP: Which is interesting
data if you think about it.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KIPP: Because it's that
interpersonal connection,
right?
So depending on circumstance,
you know, when you're--
the thing about chronic
illness, especially,
is it's very isolating, right?
And so, you know, what are
you missing out on by illness,
not being healthy?
It's so many different
things, right?
But usually, it some
version of closeness, right?
>>LISA: Ah, I was
going say freedom.
>>KIPP: Yeah, well, same
type of idea, right?
Because it's emotional freedom.
That's the only way to
have emotional freedom.
You can't have it by yourself.
>>LISA: Ah, right.
>>KIPP: Yeah, you
can't be an island.
It's just not how
it works, right?
Unfortunately.
I wish I could be.
[LAUGHS]
>>LISA: Don't we all?
But we really can't!
>>KIPP: I wish I
could be an island!
I can't be an island.
I just can't.
I have, like, deal with
that every day, you know?
>>LISA: Well, we
live in a busy city.
The tendency is to want
to just go to the island.
>>KIPP: Totally.
>>LISA: But then you
get island fever.
[CHUCKLES]
>>KIPP: That's right.
That's right.
And when you have to do it--
you can't do it all by yourself.
>>LISA: Yeah, exactly.
>>KIPP: So, you
know, with health,
it's-- you're missing out
on all kinds of stuff.
You're missing out on freedom.
You're missing out on closeness.
But the other thing is, when--
depending on how bad it is.
I grew up with a mom
who had a broken back.
She was in bed for the
first 10 years of my life.
She was completely immobilized.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KIPP: Right.
And when you look at
her trauma history
of, like, emotional
abuse by her mother,
right, there's a part of her
that doesn't want to be seen.
Because it's terrifying,
as a five-year-old,
to just have this terror
in the house, right?
So yes, there's chronic pain.
Yes, she's had major
back surgeries.
Yes, there's a medical
protocol for all that.
And the underlying real issue
is that emotional disconnection.
Because if you look
at, like, chronic pain,
it should be called
chronic trauma.
That's what it is.
>>LISA: That's true, yeah.
>>KIPP: And a lot of
the opioids and stuff
like that just make those
pain pathways circle
and become more, actually.
And so, you know-- but there's--
it's risky to be
close with somebody.
>>LISA: You're vulnerable.
>>KIPP: It's risky to show
that part of yourself, right?
So that's a lot of times why we
stay immobilized is because I
don't want to go there.
And it's not conscious.
It's all unconscious, and it's
informed from many years ago.
>>LISA: But it
results and it shows
up in things like health crises
and work crises and so forth.
>>KIPP: That's right.
>>LISA: Actually, I want to
go back to that finance piece.
If you don't have the
finances you want,
what are you missing out on?
>>KIPP: Well, all
kinds of stuff.
Usually, if you have the
finances that you want,
it's because you're
treating money
like your parents treated you.
So you know, if you
never have enough,
usually you weren't
enough, right?
Because we do what's been done
to us to others, essentially.
So it's like the
opposite the golden rule.
So the golden rule
is, do unto others
as you'd have them do
unto you, but really
it's, I do unto others
as others did unto me.
That's kind of--
>>LISA: You're following the
money story of the family.
>>KIPP: Well, not just that.
Like, so in
attachment theory, you
know, the first
physical attachment
we have is our mother, right?
Umbilical cord,
womb, all that stuff.
So how our mother treats us
with emotional attunement,
physical proximity,
and what we learn
we have to do to get that love
and approval and connection
informs everything, certainly
the money story, for sure.
So if your mother--
you know, if having
money was something
is threatening to
your mother and that
was an important connection
for you, you won't have it.
And when people realize having
money won't kill my mom, which
sounds kind of
crazy consciously,
but the unconscious
thinks so, that's
when those breakthroughs
start to happen.
Because it's
never-- like, people
have the ability to earn
tremendous amounts of money.
>>LISA: You said--
>>KIPP: But if it's not safe,
then they'll never do it.
>>LISA: Right, or if
they don't believe
they can because of those belief
systems, again, that trauma.
>>KIPP: That's right.
And what's interesting, too,
is Dr. Spock is responsible.
Because-- here's why.
>>LISA: [CHUCKLES]
>>KIPP: Dr. Spock said
let them cry, right?
But when we look at Bowlby's
work on attachment theory,
when I cry out as a
kid, and I'm preverbal,
and you know my parents
are my higher power,
and I have no power, right?
I'm just immobilized.
When I cry out and
my needs aren't met,
I get the message that
the universe doesn't
meet my needs, which eventually
turns into, I'm not worthy.
So worthiness comes
from childhood.
If our needs were met when we
cried out and we weren't held
and there wasn't proximal
attention and attunement,
that's where
unworthiness starts.
And so, you know, it's
important to realize
that you can cry out, and
your needs can get met.
That's why people have a hard
time with the law of attraction
because they think the
universe is like their mom.
[CHUCKLES]
>>LISA: Well, then you're going
to get into parenting now.
So you're-- [CHUCKLES]
>>KIPP: It's all--
it is all parenting.
>>LISA: Don't cry it out.
That's the whole point.
I have to ask you,
what is your purpose?
Your why?
What is the biggest
reason you do what you do?
>>KIPP: So on an
emotional level,
my top two emotions that I love
to feel the most are excitement
and curiosity.
Those are my two
favorites, so I'm always
searching for those
emotions in whatever I do.
So whatever makes me
excited and curious
is kind of where I'll go.
But for now, that's manifested--
I don't think-- I mean, I would
like to get beyond this one,
but this is a big one.
My moonshot is to end emotional
trauma in our lifetime.
So that's what I work on,
so anything that's lined up
with that is what I'm doing.
And you know, I'd like
it to be done tomorrow,
but it's probably not, so
that's my thing for now.
>>LISA: It's a good idea.
That's your thing for now.
Well, I'll follow you on that.
>>KIPP: Awesome.
>>LISA: Yes.
You have a lot of awareness
that you bring about.
And you make it seem so easy.
Well, if this, then this.
If this, then this.
You really have a way of
describing emotional trauma
in a way that makes
so much sense.
>>KIPP: Well that makes me happy
because I do a lot of research.
And it's a very
misunderstood topic,
and I would like to try to
say that I make it simple.
Because "easy"--
>>LISA: No, I agree.
>>KIPP: I'm not going
to say it's easy.
>>LISA: Easy to understand.
>>KIPP: Yeah, that's good.
Yeah, digestible.
You know, when I
work with scientists
and I try to unpack
the research,
I know I've hit the
truth when I try to say,
so what you're saying
is basically this,
and it's something
basic, and they go, fine.
Something like that.
Because scientists like
to give the whole context,
right, answer that
includes everything.
I like to just take
the thing that's,
like, going to help someone
do something with it
and just really make
it actionable, applied.
>>LISA: That's wonderful.
You have a genius there
of bringing that together
with people.
>>KIPP: Aw, thank you.
That means a lot.
Thanks, Lisa.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Thank you.
And for helping us
really understand
there's a deeper meaning
to the word "purpose."
And that it's very-- it's
got a lot of texture to it.
>>KIPP: It does.
>>LISA: It does.
Thank you so much.
And thank you for
hanging out with us
and interacting
during this show.
If you'd like to watch more
inspirational programming,
go to "Inspirations" on Gaia.
I'm Lisa Garr, and I
invite you to stay aware.
[MUSIC PLAYING]